We want to create new poets and we get that post create component,
thus far it only got a title,
well what do we need to create new posts? As a core minimum,
we need an input and we need a button to save that post, right.
So let's add both in the template of post create, an input, a normal text input or maybe a text area because
we want to be able to enter more text in just one line
so let's add a text area.
Now we don't need a name,
we can omit ID, columns we don't need that, rows I'll set this to 6 so that it's a bit smaller
and if we save that, we see a text area, no style
so it's not that pretty, we'll come back to the styling soon,
let's focus on the logic for now.
As I said we also need a button, let's add a button below the text area where we say save posts like
that
and now of course this doesn't do anything, it looks super ugly,
let's actually do something about that,
let's add a horizontal line between the two for now
but it's still not pretty but we can work with that.
So we can click that button but it doesn't do anything,
we can enter anything here but that of course doesn't create a new post because what's missing, the logic,
well also the styling
but mainly the logic.
How would the browser know what we want to do when we click save post?
It can't and that is exactly the logic we'll add with angular.
Now to do something upon a click here, we need to add a click listener and we do that with a feature
called event binding. Event binding is an angular feature which allows us to listen to events in a declarative
way, which means instead of using javascript where we would go to our code and then try to select the
element with query selector or anything like that and then use add event listener on the element,
instead of doing all that programmatically, we go to our template and we add something there which is
not default html but which is understood by angular
since this is an angular component, we add parentheses and in between there, the name of the event we want
to listen to and that's now not onClick but just click,
so the name without on
and you can of course also listen to things like mousedown, mouseenter and so on.
But here it's click then equal and then quotation marks between which you define the code you want
to execute.
Now that can't be complex code here in the template
and typically you just pass the name of a method of that component class here which should be executed.
So we could add a method, that's a function in a class to that post create component and I'll simply
name it on add post.
The name is up to you but you typically start with an on at the beginning of your method name for methods
that are triggered upon events.
Now in there, we want to get information about that new post,
right
and for now, what I'll do is I'll just throw an alert, post added so that we can see if that worked if we
successfully triggered this.
Now I pass this on add post function name here including the parentheses to click.
What this will do is it will connect both, after reloading if I click save post,
we see that alert appear
so that worked.
Now that's the first step,
we are able to listen to the events,
we're not able to get the input we entered here and we're not able to output anything on the screen
other than that alert.
These are the things we'll work on next.